# FinTech_Case_Study
An analysis of PayPal 
## Overview and Origin 
* This is a critical analysis of PayPal Holdings, Inc
* PayPal was incorporated in 1998. Head office located in San Jose, California 
* Original founders of PayPal Holdings, Inc are Max Levchin, Peter Thiel, and Luke Nosek who had worked in Silicon Valley startups 
* The idea of of PayPal came about when Max Levchin, Luke Nosek, and Peter Thiel met together and discussed a curious idea which is a universal way of making payment to friends and family, as well as global business. They started with the first step of figuring out a medium for this service. Presonal digital assistance also know as PDA was the perfect idea for the trio. PDA was the first digital wallet, that allowed the trio to store their service which they  called fieldlink. It allowed for its users to store encrypted information to the device. Fieldlink had a small user base, because not alot of people owned PDA. Fieldlink crash in no time, bringing the trio back to the drawing broad.The trio quickly realized that the was a new popular internet based financial base medium for their service, that will allow users receive and send payments from credit cards, e-check and also process and reinburse customers with funds. Fieldlink reincorporated as Confinity and called their serives PayPal. PayPal app was created for phones, which was widely welcomed by the public, gaining PayPal app more the a million users in just weeks. PayPal launched a new product that enabled users to send money back and forth in the year 2000, gaining the company more than a 100million active uers in 190 countries.
* PayPal was originally funded by Nokia who backed the company with a $3milion investment. Paypal is funded by shareholders and a variety of sources like Stock sales, Venture capital and debt financing. In 2015, as part of PayPal's initial public offering  the company sold 35% of their shares for $1.9billion giving them a market capitalization of about $50billion. As of August 2022, PayPal's market capitalization is $103.79Billion, placing the company as 119th most valauble company by market cap. 

###
Business Acitivities
* PayPal is experiencing profitabilty issues and competition with the traditional methods of receiving and sending money introduced such as Venmo,Stripe, Square, Zelle, CashApp etc. This has made with difficultfor PayPal's profitbality issues which has an impact on the botton line. Since the end of July 2021, PayPal's stock has crashed by 60% which correlates to about $200billion lose in market cap. The company has never been able to achieve a sustainable operation by themselves. PayPal has alwayss focused on customers as opposed to profit which was fine throughout the late 1990's, due to how easy it was to source funding for a rapidly growing FinTech company such as PayPal. With the turn of the millennium and the bust ofthe .com bubble. 2001 was a year that PayPal realized they had to focus on profitablity with the want to survive. When eBay announed their partnership with Wells Fargo to launch their own payment system called Billpoint, this craeted alot of issue for PayPal. The companies 61% revenue came from eBay, this extreme dependency on eBay is one of the reasons Google and Yahoo refused to acquire PayPal. With Ebay subsequently purchasing Paypal for $1.5Billion in 2002. This did not save Paypals dependency issues, although payPal's profitability issues was elimited for a short time as they where comfortably able to absorb their losses. Although PayPay and ebay where no longer competitors with PayPal having the entire eBay market to go after, but with the raise of Venmo in 2009, and Venmo dominating the peer to peer market today profitabilty is still an issue for PayPal. PayPal is trying to increase its number of users and amount of money users are spending. This can be achiachieved by making it easier for new users to sign up for PayPal accounts and be able to use it right away. Secondly, increased spending by users can be achieved if PayPal offred more features and benefits to it's users. 
* PayPal is gears itself for serving the needs of commercial entities by helping them transmit and receive payments in a prompt and organized manner. The company has a few advantages over its rivals such Venmo, Zelle, Square, CashApp. This advantage includes lower transaction fees and quicker processing times overall. This has made PayPal a good choice for companies that need to transfer, receive, or track money faster. 
* Providing an accurate challenging estimate of PayPal’s customer base in todays market. With that been said PayPal’s services is estimated to be utilized by over 426million companies and individuals all over the world. This has made PayPal one of the most prominent and widely used payment processors worldwide.
* Aside from Venmo, Stripe is PayPal’s significant rival. In Additionally, Stripe has lower transaction cost and quicker processing time. With that been said, PayPal has a lot of benefits that its significant rival Stripe does not. PayPal is a more established and well-known company than its competitors. PayPal with user base of 426million, Stripe 2million users, Venmo 70million users, Zelle 86million users, and lastly CashApp 47.8Million users. It is fair to say PayPal is well known than its competitors.
* PayPal provides a greater variety of payment processing options which compared to stripe. Services such as, merchant services and customer assistance, among others. PayPal is a more accepted money service and has a wider variety of individuals and companies as compared to Stripe. The company has a substantial edge against its competitors because of this.
* PayPal uses Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) technology stack. Unique technologies, such as Java servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Message Service (JMS), and Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB), is included in this technological stack (EJB). The technology mentioned is used by PayPal in building a variety of applications like, the system used for processing payments, to spot fraudulent activities and for customer support. Payments can be conducted by users, all thanks to this processing systems that have been set in place. 
* These technologies are being used by PayPal to build a variety of applications, such as a system for processing payments, one for spotting fraud, and one for customer support. When a user transfers money to another user’s account, a request for payment is sent by PayPal to this application. The recipient’s account is then check by the payment processing system for sufficient funds availability for the transaction. Deduction is then made from senders account, plus adding fees for transaction cost. The fraud system uses information gathered from previous transactions that have taken place using PayPal, merchants and information gathered by financial institutions such as credit card companies and banks. In the processing of payment applications under detection of fraud, PayPal makes use of Java Servlets. these systems having created to manage and process new users request appropriately. new user request is received by the payment application, which in turn processes them using an automated system in producing an invoice. the user's e-mail will then be used to send this invoice back. PayPal can offer users an individualized level of service without having to hire additional staff members.

####
Landscape 
* PayPal is a financial services industry domain. 
* Since PayPal was inception in 1998, the way people send and receive money has been revolutionized. The company has over 426 million active users in 202 countries in regions. the company has also processed an estimated $282 billion in payments since 2019. It is indeed the go to payment method for most online shoppers and has also been adopted by many brick and mortar businesses as a payment method. This company has made a profound impact on both small and large businesses, by providing a simple, secure, and more convenient where to send and receive payment.
* Financial services industry companies in PayPal domain inculde Clover Network, Bild, Checkout.com, BilGo, Bigcommerce, Affinipay, Circle, Remitly, Braintree and many other mentioned above.

#####
Results 
* I like that PayPal impact has been significant in the business world. the company has visualized the way people send and receive money worldwide. The company has made it possible for individuals to be able to make purchases online without disclosing their credit card information I think that to the merchant. making it easier for businesses to accept payments from yeah customers without having to set-up accounts. Businesses can enjoy lower cost when they use PayPal network exactly to process transactions. this has enabled businesses reduce the credit card processing cost by 1%. This business can also upgrade and enjoy services provided by PayPal such as fraud protection insurance coverage, Technical Support, chargeback protection. They can take advantage of the PayPal’s purchase protection program.  
* There are a few core metrics that companies in the same domain as PayPal use in measuring their success. Metrics such as number of transactions, number of users, and the total value of transactions done by active users. If we're going by this metrics, we can see that PayPal has been performing well as compared to its peers.  In the first quarter of 2022 PayPal has processed $5.61billion transactions, with over 429 active users. Overall, PayPal has been performing very well based on the metrics used to measure success in the payment industry. 
* When compared to its competitors in the payment industry, PayPal is a strong performer. The company has a large customer base and has continued to grow over the years. the company has an advantage over its competitors because it offers lower transaction fees and is also more convenient for users. The company also has a buyer protection service, which gives PayPal an edge over its competitors. 

######
Recommendations
* I will recommend for PayPal to offer products and services that allows for its users to make in store purchases with their PayPal account. This will be beneficial and convenient for both PayPal and its users. Hereby, creating a much larger presence for the company globally.
* This will benefit PayPal by creating a larger presence in the physical world. PayPal will be tapping into a new market, this will be a new revenue stream for the PayPal. It will also establish itself as a trusted brand, here by increasing loyalty among its users.
* PayPal will still be utilizing thesame technology as there original product or service. changing it could mean losing access to this technology. The technology is integral to PayPal products and services, so changing this technology will essentially mean changing their original product and services. PayPal’s current technology is the reason why their products and services I able to function. 
* The technology is appropriate for the solution because it is a simple and effective way to manage inventory. This system can track inventory levels and help to ensure that items are always in stock. 
Additionally, the system can provide alerts when items need to be reordered. This can help to streamline the inventory management process and save time. The technology is appropriate for the solution because it is a simple and effective way to manage inventory. 
This system can track inventory levels and help to ensure that items are always in stock. Additionally, the system can provide alerts when items need to be reordered. This can help to streamline the inventory management process and save time. This system can also help to reduce the amount of waste and improve overall efficiency. 
The technology is appropriate for the solution because it is a simple and effective way to manage inventory. This system can track inventory levels and help to ensure that items are always in stock. Additionally, the system can provide alerts when items need to be reordered. It can help to streamline the inventory management process and save time. This system can also help to reduce the amount of waste and improve overall efficiency. 
Additionally, this system can help to improve customer satisfaction by ensuring that items are always available.

#######
Reference
* P. (2022, May 5). Paypal Holdings Inc: the big problem with the fintech company. Proactiveinvestors NA. https://www.proactiveinvestors.com/companies/news/981482/paypal-holdings-inc-the-big-problem-with-the-fintech-company-981482.html
* 17+ Impressive PayPal Statistics to Pay Attention to in 2022. (2022, April 6). WebTribunal. https://webtribunal.net/blog/paypal-statistics/#gref
* PayPal (PYPL) - Market capitalization. (2022, July 5). Market Cap. Retrieved August 3, 2022, from https://companiesmarketcap.com/paypal/marketcap/
* Contributor                                        Naeem Aslam, N. A. (2021, November 8). PayPal's market cap is almost double Goldman Sachs; why wall street needs to pay attention. Nasdaq. Retrieved August 4, 2022, from https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/paypals-market-cap-is-almost-double-goldman-sachs-why-wall-street-needs-to-pay-attention 
* Plc, G. D. (n.d.). Total payment volume on PayPal: Global (Q3 2015 – Q1 2022). GlobalData. Retrieved August 4, 2022, from https://www.globaldata.com/data-insights/cards-amp-payments-financial-services/total-payment-volume-on-paypal-global/ 
* Schroer, A., Strategist, S. E. O. C., &amp; Alyssa Shcroer is a Built In SEO content strategist who formerly covered tech companies and emerging trends for BuiltIn.com. She holds a bachelor’s degree in communications studies from the University of Iowa. (n.d.). 36 top fintech payment processing companies. Built In. Retrieved August 4, 2022, from https://builtin.com/fintech/fintech-payments-companies-examples 







